[Music]
imagine you're on a train calm relaxed
and enjoying your journey without a care
in the world after all
travelling by train is one of the safest
ways to get somewhere but what's that
you feel it accelerate and soon it's
already moving at breakneck speed
ignoring stop signs stations and other
trains you're pinching yourself in a
futile attempt to wake up but it's no
nightmare you're on a runaway train wait
that really happens sure does and there
are plenty of real cases like that of
train number 1908 it was a cold winter
night on January 11th 2004 when the 5000
ton freight train was moving along the
main Volkov Street to line in Russia's
northwestern Leningrad region where st.
Petersburg is located even though
everything seemed to be in order at that
moment just a couple of hours before it
looked as if the Train wouldn't be able
to start its journey at all perhaps that
would have been better given how things
would turn out later the thing is that
two people were supposed to arrive at
the train yard that night 31 year old
engineer Edouard and his 24 year old
assistant Alexander but when it was time
for their shift to begin at 11 p.m. the
engineer was nowhere to be seen after
waiting for his coworker for 15 minutes
the assistant decided to inform
management they eventually got hold of
Edouard and the engineer simply said
that he had overslept
he ended up arriving on site at 12:15
a.m. making him 1 hour and 15 minutes
late obviously everybody was severely
behind schedule now so the engineers
standard pre journey medical check was
done in a hurry but his health readings
were normal and he was totally sober
everything was fine nothing out of
routine here except maybe the fact that
instead of his uniform the man
was wearing a suit and tie as if he were
going to some important event but nobody
seemed to find that odd and why would
they after all
the engine-driver although quite private
was a disciplined worker he was just
your normal guy liked football and
hockey perhaps he had just had a wedding
or something to go to after work and he
wouldn't have time to change who knows
in any case after the doctors gave him
the green light the engineer was ready
to go he climbed up into the cab and
that's when his assistant noticed
another oddity Edouard didn't put a new
tape into the train speedometer which
was a serious violation of the rules but
when asked Edward assured his partner
that everything was okay and started the
locomotive it left the train yard at
12:42 a.m. and headed for its first
station where it got connected 258
loaded cars after the train left the
loading station the engineer broke
protocol once more by refusing to check
if the brake system was working
correctly again they were critically
behind schedule so nothing seemed too
alarming at first but then as the train
came toward the railway hall
volkoff's Cretu kekulé the train
operator reported that there was another
train approaching the station train 1908
was supposed to make way for the other
locomotive and wait for it to pass
Alexander the assistant confirmed
receiving this information and the train
started to slow down but within seconds
the younger man screamed in horror when
the engineer hit the controls to
accelerate when Alexander tried to bring
his coworker to his senses the much
stronger engineer
answered back with physical threats
desperate the assistant realised there
was nothing he could do to prevent what
was sure to become one of the most
terrible railway disasters in history
by that time the engineer had already
switched off the cab signaling which was
supposed to inform him about the maximum
speed allowed on the track at 258 a.m.
the train blew through the red light at
KU coal station careened on a totally
unscheduled route and dashed toward the
main track
no one could contact the two men inside
the trains radio receiver had been
switched off it was gaining speed now
reaching 60 miles per hour
horror-stricken alex' couldn't do a
thing to stop his partner Edward
obviously had lost his mind everything
changed at Value Station at 3:02 a.m.
when the runaway had already blown
through the previous stop at my Cellino
the value station operator came up with
the idea to cut the power on the line it
was done just seconds before the
multi-ton train sped past his station
even though the electricity had been
successfully cut off the train kept
gaining speed because it was going
downhill luckily this descent turned
into a steep incline about 5 miles down
the way and the train speed started to
drop at 3:45 a.m. the train finally lost
its forward momentum and came to a stop
Alexander the assistant immediately saw
his only chance to escape he jumped out
of the cab and rushed toward the nearest
station to report the incident good
thing he got out when he could because
the train then started to roll back
towards value station remember it was
now on a pretty steep hill naturally the
engineer didn't apply the brakes so the
train rolled another mile in the
opposite direction before it came to a
halt this time for good
when the police got to the train at 4:14
a.m. they discovered the engineer on the
floor completely out of it the
delusional man was taken to the hospital
for mental health treatment it was a
shocking diagnosis given that he'd
passed his previous mandatory psych
evaluation in 2003 well in any case
thanks to some fast thinking on that
station operators part this incident
didn't turn into a catastrophe had the
Train continued its crazed path to
destruction it would have made it to the
town of tick Finn population 60,000 whoo
what a story but I've got another for
you and this runaway train
might sound a little more familiar ever
heard of the Crazy Eights incident it
happened on May 15th 2001 in Northwest
Ohio locomotive eight eight eight eight
hence the nickname was moving a string
of 47 freight cars on the Walbridge
Kenton lie 22 of the cars were full with
two of them containing thousands of
gallons of an extremely hazard and
combustible industrial chemical molten
fuel if a person inhales our digests
this stuff or if it comes into contact
with the skin the consequences won't be
pretty things were going smoothly until
the trains 35 year old engineer notice
that one switch was strangely misaligned
the man decided that since the train was
moving quite slowly he'd have more than
enough time to get down fix the switch
and climb right back up into his cabin
but as it turned out later that wasn't a
great plan whatsoever before the
engineer left the cab he'd set the wrong
brake in other words he didn't hit the
one that we keep all the cars locked in
place but that wasn't the only problem
when the man applied the brakes he
automatically disabled the Deadman
switch this switch can cut the engine
power and stop the train if something
were to happen to the operator but these
circumstances wouldn't have led to such
a huge ordeal if it hadn't been for
the last dire mistake when the engineer
tried to switch a special brick that
would have slowed the train down to a
crawl he accidentally set the engine not
to break but to accelerate so here's the
situation
you got a super-heavy free train with
hazardous chemicals one functioning
brake that's certainly not powerful
enough to stop the whole train and the
only human operator is about to
disembark hmm let's see what happens
shall we when the engineer got to the
ground and aligned the switch he
immediately tried to get back on board
but the locomotive was already speeding
up the Train dragged the man for about
80 feet before dumping him on the ground
and rolling out of the yard to start at
65 mile journey on one hand the engineer
was luckily mostly unscathed on the
other hand a stray train was running
south at a speed of 51 miles per hour
with no one at the controls you can
imagine the turmoil that started as soon
as the authorities found out about the
runaway at first they tried to stop the
train with the help of a portable
derailleur but these attempts failed
then the police started to shoot at the
emergency switch which serves to cut off
the fuel supply that didn't work either
because the switch had to be pressed for
at least a few seconds before the fuel
starved engine would shut down it was
then when the dispatchers came up with a
brilliant idea locomotive 83 91 would
wait in ambush for the runaway 8888 to
approach there were two crew members on
that train engineers Jess Knowlton and
Terry Forson when the two of them saw
the speeding runaway the chase ensued
luckily Knowlton and forcin managed a
couple onto the freight cars rear car
and began to slow it down as soon as the
runaway speed dropped to 11 miles per
hour engineer John Haas fell who had
been waiting up ahead
managed to climb into the cab and shut
down the engine later it turned out that
the heat and friction had completely
destroyed the brakes on eight eight
eight eight after they have been used
during the whole trip even though this
incident gave everyone involved and the
public quite a scare it did and well and
boy talk about teamwork makes the dream
work so have you ever heard about any
other runaway trains let me know down in
the comments if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey now
don't start uncoupling from us just yet
we have over two thousand cool videos
for you to check out all you have to do
is pick the left or right video click on
it and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life